{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red159\green242\blue92;\red62\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red61\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c67668\c94348\c43431;\cssrgb\c25653\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;
\cssrgb\c25530\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18700\viewh17360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs72 \cf0 Ryan Huang, 2.3.22, Period 6
\f1\b0\fs36 \
\
Ribosome: Assembles amino acids in a certain order to create polypeptide chains (Protein Synthesis). Those polypeptide chain eventually become full proteins. The instruction are from RNA. MIGHT REDO\
\
\cf2 Animal Cell\cf0 : A cell from an animal, this would be considered a eukaryote. This cell incudes the organelles, peroxisome, centrosome, lysosome, ribosomes, cell membrane, smooth ER, rough ER, nucleus, mitochondria, cytoplasm and the Golgi apparatus. This cell does not make its own food using its own organelles. Like all cell it had DNA however unlike prokaryotes it had a nucleus. It lacks the addition of a cell wall unlike plant cells.\
\
\cf2 Plant Cell\cf0 : A cell form a plant. This is an eukaryotic cell. This cell include ribosomes, smooth and rough ER\'92s, a nucleus, the cell membrane, mitochondria, the cytoplasm, a vacuole, and the Golgi apparatus. This type of cell is an autotroph because it creates it own food. It also had DNA and a nucleus like other eukaryotic cells. Some which is unique about it is that it has a cell wall unlike animal cells. NEED TO TAKE PHOTO\
\
\cf2 Prokaryotic Cell\cf0 : This cell is a bacteria cell. It doesn\'92t have any organelles, there for it doesn\'92t have a nucleus. Its DNA 
\f2 \uc0\u55358 \u56812 
\f1  is stored in the nuclide that floats in the cytoplasm. It also doesn\'92t a mitochondria, however it still has ribosomes. The element of a Prokaryotic cell consists of a cell membrane, cytoplasm, nuclide, and ribosome. It also may have a form of transport which it can move itself around with such as a flagella.\
\
Nucleus: The nucleus houses the DNA which is required to create proteins. Inside the nucleus there is a dense ball which the largest single structure. Its main function is to RNA synthesis.\
\
Rough ER: The Rough ER is where the protein synthesis happened. It is considered rough because there are many Ribosomes on the outside of it. It is similar to the Smooth ER however the Smooth ER doesn\'92t have Ribosomes.\
\
Smooth ER: The Smooth ER is where lipid synthesis and storage takes place. Its is notably different from the Rough ER by its lack of Ribosomes. \
\
Cell Membrane: There is a Cell Membrane in every living cell. It functions to protect the cell from the outside environment and to control what gets lets in and out. It\'92s made of proteins, nucleic acid, and carbohydrates.\
\
\cf3 \cb4 Mitochondria\cf0 \cb1 : The mitochondria is an organelle which provides the energy in both animal and plant cells. This is where most of the cell\'92s ATP Is generated. Inside the Mitochondria the 2 main processes are the Krebs cycle and the Electron Transport Chain. It has an inner layer which folds inward to form cristaes. The inner layer is folded as to have more surface area. The membrane of the cell will let in small molecules with out channel proteins. \
\
Vacuole: The vacuole is an organelle which are present in both animal and plant cells. It contains mostly water. In the plant cell it\'92s main purpose is it provide water and to keep the cell pressure at a stable pressure.\
\
Golgi Apparatus: The Golgi apparatus is a organelle which function is to package, modify, and to transport proteins and lipid. They are found in a vast majority of cells. They send out vesicles to their place.\
\
Lysosome: A lysosome is an organelle which function is to break down worn-out parts of a cell and intruding viruses and bacteria. They can breakdown nearly any biomolecule including \'93proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, lipids, and cellular debris\'94. To accomplish this they contain over 50 different enzymes. \
\
Ribosomes: The ribosome is an organelle which function is to synthesis protein. They link together amino acids to the instructions of the RNA. RNA is so important to this organelle that the \'93rib\'94 in ribosome comes from RNA.\
\
Eyespot: A eyespot is a photosensitive organelle which allows the cell to respond to light. This allows the cell/animal to go toward places where there is light which can correspond to where there is more food.\
\
Cytoskeleton: The cytoskeleton is a complex network of interconnected protein fibers. It is found in all cells including bacteria. It\'92s function is the keep the structure of the cell intact.\
\
\cf5 Chloroplast\cf0 : This is the organelle where photosynthesis occurs. There are other things contained inside this such as the thylakoids and the stoma. Photosynthesis which creates glucose and oxygen. This is where light energy is turned into chemical energy. They are colored green because of the chlorophyll inside of them. Inside the thylakoid is where photosynthesis takes place. Stoma is the liquid which is inside of the chloroplast.\
\
Pseudopod: A pseudopod is a temporary arm which helps the cell move. It\'92s filled with cytoplasm and can disappear.\
\
Flagellum: A slender tail like structure which function is to help the cell to move around. This is present on many protozoa and bacteria. There can be more than one flagellum on one cell.\
\
Cilia: Cilia are short hairs on the outside of the cell. The function of these structure is to help the cell move around. More specifically it helps them move in some kind of liquid. \
\
\cf5 Passive Transport:\cf0  Passive transport is when molecules diffuse into the cell without the use of energy. It only goes from high to low concentration. This is with with the concentration gradient. Only small molecules and non-ionic molecules can diffuse into the cell this way. An example of a molecule which can be transported by passive transport is water(H2O)\
\
\cf5 Facilitated Transport:\cf0  Facilitated transport is when there is a protein channel which allows larger molecules to move into the cell. This is to allow larger and ionic molecules to move in and out of the cell. Facilitated transport will use energy(ATP) in some cases and in other won\'92t. Facilitated transport also allows for molecules to be transported against the concentration gradient (from low to high concentration).\
\
Hypertonic: When a cell is hypertonic it shrivels up. This is because there is more solutes outside the cell so the water flows out of the cell.\
\
Hypotonic: When a cell is hypotonic it swells up. This is because there is less solutes outside the cell so the water into out of the cell.\
\
Isotonic: When a cell is isotonic it stays the same. This is because there is an equal amount of solute inside and outside of the cell. This causes the water to flow back and forth at a random but equal rate.}